for decades the path to German
citizenship has been long requiring
competence in the language years of
residency a clean criminal record
Financial Security and a commitment to
democracy Law and Order applicants must
also pass a multiple choice test to show
their awareness of life in Germany but
now in one of the 16 States an
additional requirement has been
introduced in the aftermath of hamas's
attack on Israel in
October we have now decided that as part
of the process all applicants for
naturalization must make a written
declaration recognizing Germany's
special responsibility for the state of
Israel and recognizing the state of
Israel's right to exist where her
government in magdor has led so some
people here in Berlin seem to want to
follow prominent politicians on the left
and on the right say existing rules
don't go far
enough several weeks ago conservative
leader Friedrich matat suggested
enshrining in law was what his party
colleagues in Saxony anal have done the
federal interior Minister Nancy fiza
appears to agree one leading lawyer told
me he believes this action is
unconstitutional Israel's right to
existence is not a legal principle it's
a um political principle that several
German governments have adopted but it's
not written in the Constitution and also
the director from Zakon anal didn't
consider at all the right
and Liberties of the people
affected Parliament is already debating
whether to relax some of the rules
regarding German citizenship to
encourage more people to apply but if
the change regarding Israel is passed
then it may discourage others Dominic
kanaine Al jazer
Berlin make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer